How Long Have Cancer Patients Left To Live

More than 50,000 new cancer patients are diagnosed every year in USA. Every patient goes through a long process of diagnoses, sometimes in early stages and more than 46% of cancers are diagnosed only in very advanced stages. Patients undergo many rounds of expensive multiple treatments, which includes radiotherapy and chemotherapy and many more cancer profiling resulted treatments. However despite of all the fancy treatments, these patients constantly faced by huge mental trauma due to side-effects of the treatments as well as a dreadful questions like “When will I die?”, “How long have I got”, and “How much longer can I live?” This project aims to answer these questions and will attempt to provide a clearer picture of the mortality due to site-specific cancer. 

Having a clear idea about mortality due to certain cancer site will not only provide some relief to patients, whose lives have been embedded into constants visits to medical center but will also tremendously help doctors, who are faced by these unresolved questions everyday and not knowing what to say make them feel incompetent in their jobs. 
Other than helping achieve more cooperative environment in the medical centers, having deeper insights into mortality due to cancer sites will be highly profitable for various pharmaceutical companies; e.g. information about which cancer site leads to rapid death and leaves almost no amount of time to live and is most prevalent in west coast states and is predicted to report around 20,000 cases by 2020, would be of interest to companies, in order to invest more to develop cancer prediction strategies or drugs for that particular cancer site as that would have a huge potential and high value and would bring tremendous revenues. Similar crucial information’s would be brought to light by the exploiting the power of data science in this project. 

In this project the data of United States Cancer Statistics, 1999-2013 provided at the Canters for Disease Control and Prevention.
https://wonder.cdc.gov/CancerMort-v2013.html
The data including various features like cancer sites, states, year, sex, age and race would be downloaded in .csv files from the website. Further, data wrangling would be performed using pandas in python. These data files will be merged into one dataframe that would have mortality data for every category combinations. This data will be used for exploratory data analysis, where various features of the data like max, min, average, geographic/ demographic distributions and many others would be analyzed. This will provide a better understanding of the data and its caveats. Data will be wrangled again to remove any caveats that can skew further analysis. Finally, predictive data analysis will be performed and deeper insights into cancer-site mortality predictions will be achieved. 

To conclude the project I would provide code for data analysis and report with the presentation slide deck that would include every detail of the analysis and highlight its salient features.  
 
